---
layout: post
title: Why I'll Never Say No to Starbucks
---

I spent three years of my life living the Barista life at Starbucks and in that time I witnessed numerous awkward first dates,  business meetings, all-nighter study sessions, and most of all, impactful conversations. As a Barista, I learned a lot about the people I served and built relationships that lasted way long after I left.  As a University of Waterloo student, Ten Thousand Coffees advocate, and T&O Student Program Community Manager, there's a lot going on in my life but I will never miss the opportunity to spend a few minutes going for coffee with someone. I am a huge fan of coffee chats and not just because of the caffeine involved.

I've had the pleasure of going on numerous coffee chats, some happened casually and spontaneously, and others more formally and scheduled. Truth be told: I've never declined someone's invitation to grab coffee. I don't always have the luxury of spending an entire hour chatting over a coffee every time but I will take out about 15 minutes of my day to take a break from emails and meetings to engage in creating a human connection.

I find coffee chats to be especially useful for students because they connect us to a variety of different people that can all teach us something new. I don't believe that anyone could ever know too much or have a network that's too large- the more connections, the better. In saying that, it's also important to remember that it should always be quality over quantity. Having a large network is nice but it's important to remember to remain engaged with all your connections. Otherwise, your network will simply serve no purpose.

### Tips to a successful coffee chat:
1. #### Become a networking guru!
Coffee chats help expand your network gradually. Meeting someone for coffee will have a more lasting impression than sending someone a LinkedIn invite. No matter what Apple, Google, or any of those companies tell you, we will always need a human connection- we'd be lost without it! Coffee chats help us engage in a meaningful conversation and take a break from technology. Try to have an open mind and thick skin while inviting people for coffee- not everyone will be able to serve you your dream job on a golden plate and not everyone will agree to spending their precious time having coffee with you.
2. #### Keep learning!
Coffee chats are also a great way to learn! As a student, I appreciate people taking time out of their day to mentor me and advise me on my career. There are so many people out there that have a wealth of knowledge to share and I'm eager to learn. In order to get the most out of my coffee chats, I always prepare my questions ahead of time or have a few generic questions at the back of my head saved for an awkward silence here or there. Questions revolved around the other person's career, their education, their current position, and other similar topics are all fair game. Some topics you should probably stay away from: who they're dating, why they hate their boss, and why is the sky blue. Ask the proper questions and don't waste their time or yours for that matter.
3. #### Convenience is key!
Now that I've spent time talking about the importance of coffee chats, you probably have a burning question you're waiting on the edge of your seats for me to answer: Why coffee chats? Why not tea chats? Well my friend, go on whatever type of "chat" you would like: tea chats, smoothie chats, ice cream chats, etc. You might get the occasional eyebrow raise when you invite someone to a smoothie chat but the point is, whatever gets you face time(not the Apple kind) with another person. Coffee chats are convenient because the majority of people go for coffee anyway, why not use that time strategically and spend it networking! As a student, I know that although I think my schedule is packed, it's no comparison to some other people's that work around me. So, my advice to you is to be mindful and considerate of who you invite for coffee and remember that their time is precious so scheduling a coffee chat when it is most convenient for them would probably entice them to accept your invitation even more.
4. #### Jobs are here!*
Coffee chats have proven to be successful because it's a conversation not an interview, so make sure you treat it that way. It's important to be prepared for your coffee chats but don't turn it into an audition for a play where every line is well rehearsed. Keep it real and go with the flow! You're getting to know that person and they're getting to know you. Having a natural conversation and sharing your experiences and skills with them will be much more memorable than a monologue from you.

There you have it - my very own coffee chat tips for you to use and share. I'm definitely no expert in the area of coffee chats but I've sure learned a lot from my past coffee chats. It's an experience I encourage everyone to try.  Working at Starbucks taught me a lot about how people can be very picky about their coffee but most importantly, it also taught me that a cup of coffee can bring people from different walks of life together to share a special conversation and make a human connection. If you haven't already been on a coffee chat, I strongly encourage you to give it a try. The results may just surprise you!